# Calories-Burnt-Prediction
o calculate calories burned, making you smarter in the process. Based on the activity type and duration, it estimates how many calories you have burned. Then, it can tell you how much weight you can expect to lose given the calories burned walking, for example. On top of that, in this calorie calculator, we talk about lost calories per day, how to burn more calories with fitness, and explore the health benefits of exercising, such as the prevention of heart disease.
calories are a measure of energy. Traditionally, it was a reasonably common unit of energy, but nowadays, it's been relegated to describe almost solely nutrition and the energy content in food. The definition of a calorie is the energy required to raise the temperature of 1 gram of water by 1C. In modern times the definition of a calorie has been tuned and improved to a more reliable and repeatable one until we have arrived at the current: 1 calorie is equivalent to 4.18 joules.

In nutrition, we actually deal with kilocalories (kcal), where 1 kcal is equal to a thousand "small" calories. This kilocalorie is often called large calorie, Cal or Calorie (with capital 'C'). As you imagine, 1 kcal = 4.18 kJ. In this article, we use the term "calories" to describe kilocalories for simplicity.

Road sign calories burned
When you mention calories, people immediately think about nutrition, weight loss, and even health problems associated with being overweight, such as heart disease. This reaction is because body fat and calories are very closely related. Body fat is the way our body stores energy for times of necessity. Body fat is how we store those extra calories that we ate but never burned. Fat is not necessarily a bad thing, as we explained in our healthy body fat calculator.

There is a simple way to calculate calories from fat, based on body fat's energy density. Each kilogram of body fat stores about 7700 kcal. This equivalence allows the burned calories calculator to predict the weight loss derived from a certain exercise. However, this is just an oversimplification since "calories in vs. calories out" is not the whole story when it comes to weight loss. We will go a bit more into the details in a later section. For now, let's focus on the calculator.
